Well, in Jesus' name we pray, amen, we say that all the time, and as Brother
Montenegro just pointed out, this is not just some technical thing like a
signature at the end of a letter that we send to Jehovah.
As we learned through the text today, our comments, this is a recognition of
Jesus' role as high priest and appreciation for the ransom that makes it
possible to open the way or our approach to Jehovah God. So when Jehovah sees
that gratitude and when our actions back up that attitude, well then he's going
to listen to our prayers. But we have maybe a few other questions that we might
have based on this scripture, John chapter 14 verses 13 and 14. The scripture
says in verse 13, whatever you ask in my name, which we now understand, Jesus
says, I will do this. And then you notice in verse 14, he says it again. If you
ask anything in my name, I will do it. So here's the question. Is Jesus
answering our prayers? Is that what he means? Well, notice what Jesus says in
the same conversation, but just a little later, in John chapter 16 and verse 23.
You can open your Bibles there to John chapter 16 and verse 23. We'll just
read the second half of that verse. It says, most truly I say to you, if you
ask the Father for anything, he will give it to you in my name. Now does this
seem like a contradiction? Didn't Jesus say, if you ask anything in my name, I
will do it. And now Jesus is saying, if you ask anything in my name, he will give
it to you. Jehovah will give it to you. So what's the answer? What's going on? Well,
let's get a balance this idea out just a little bit further in Jesus
conversation in verses 26 and 27. Jesus continues saying to his disciples, in
that day, you will make requests of the Father in my name. In saying this, I do not
mean that I will make requests for you, for the Father Himself has affection for
you. So who is it that's working in our behalf when we pray? Well, notice what
the watchtower of April 2020 says to explain this verse. It says, although
Jehovah is the one who hears and answers our prayers, he has given Jesus the
authority to carry out his decisions. So Jehovah listens, he then decides on a
plan, a way of responding to the prayer, and Jehovah follows through by using
Jesus to provide the Holy Spirit that we need in answer to our prayer. Amazing. And
neither of them are pressured to do this. They do this because of love. Jesus says
this at the end of verse 27, chapter 16, 27, the Father Himself has affection for
you. So they don't feel obligated. The study note on that verse, the idea of
affection says that it's the same deep emotion or affection that Jesus showed when
he saw his friends Mary and Martha grieving the death of Lazarus, their brother,
and also Jesus' friend. So Jehovah and Jesus motivated by affection and love are
working toward responding to our prayers. So can you imagine the power that that
means for us? Jehovah and Jesus interested in our thoughts, interested in our
concerns and working towards answering and helping us. So that's with one
prayer. What happens when those prayers are multiplied in a large group? Well, in
second Corinthians, chapter 1 and verse 11, Paul wrote this, he was that he was
talking about the prayers that the congregation in Corinth would say for him. He
says, you also can help us by your supplication for us in order that many may
give things in our behalf for the for the favor we receive in answer to the
prayers of many. So one prayer has power, but a united prayer in behalf of
someone or a group of people has more power. This is what the inside book says on
this verse, while Jehovah God cannot be pressured by numbers into acting, he
evidently takes action when his servants collectively show deep concern and
united interest. So let's see that in practice through a Bible example. How
Jehovah listens and responds by using Jesus to the united prayers of his
servants. It's a famous example in Acts chapter 12. So open your Bibles, please
there to Acts chapter 12, and we see in verses 1 and 2 the situation here I just
is mistreating the congregation. He puts James the Apostle in prison and then he
executes James, executes an Apostle. You can just imagine how this is affecting
the brothers, how this is affecting the other Apostles. And then what does he do
next? Well, in verses 3 and 4, he then arrests Peter. He puts him into prison. He
had Peter chained between two guards. This is what the Bering thorough witness
book says, chained between two guards at a time, sixteen in total, working in
shifts day and night to make sure that this Apostle didn't escape like the
Apostles escaped before in Acts chapter 5. What was Herod wanting to do with
Peter? He wanted to execute Peter. So can you imagine the stress that Peter
would have had that night? Remember, Peter is a married man. Who's going to take
care of my wife? Who's going to take care of the congregation? Who's going to
feed Jesus' little sheep? Jesus told him, this is what I want you to do. So all
of these things were probably on his mind and he was praying about it. But now
how could the congregation help Peter? Well, they knew exactly what to do. Verse 5
says, so Peter was being kept in the prison, but the congregation was intensely
praying to God, of course, in Jesus' name, for him, for Peter. So how did this
collective prayer move Jehovah to use Jesus and following through in helping
Peter? Verse 6 and 7. When Herod was about to bring him out that night, Peter
was sleeping bound with two chains between two soldiers and guards in front of
the door were keeping watch over the prison. But look, Jehovah's angel was
standing there and a light shown in the prison cell. Hitting Peter on the
side, he woke him, saying, get up quickly and the chains fell off his hands. So how
did Jehovah respond in using Jesus? Well, they sent an angel that was used to
free Peter. But do you notice the details of this verse? Jehovah also understood
Peter's needs until Peter's situation would change. It says here that in
verse 6 that he was sleeping. How soundly? Well, do you remember how soundly
you were sleeping when you were a little kid and your mom would come in to wake
you up? She'd turn on the light. She might give you a little nudge on the side
and tell you to get up. Why? Because you were sleeping soundly. And that's
exactly what the angel did. He shone the light on Peter. Peter still didn't wake
up. He then began hitting Peter, of course, lovingly on his side and had to
tell him to get up quickly. And it seems that Peter was so groggy that even
later on, he didn't really quite understand what was going on. So what's the
point? He received the peace of God that surpasses all understanding and tell
the situation changed.